---
layout: post
author: viridi
title: step function uniform linear motion
mathjax: true
ptext: false
x3dom: false
threejs: false
oo: true
category: physics
tags: ["topics"]
date: 2020-09-16 16:50:00 +07
permalink: /physics/sf-ulm
---
A particle can moving with different constant velocity in different time interval. This type of motion should have [step function velocty](step-function-velocity). In each time interval it has a [uniform linear motion](uniform-linear-motion). The problem will be limited to the 1-d case only.


## Problem
Suppose that there are five points A, B, C, D, and E located along a straight line. A particle will move from one point to another one. This motion can be considered as a one-dimensional (1-d) motion. We choose $x$ direction in describing this problem. Coordinate of all points are

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:sfulm-points-ABCED}
x_A = 1 \ {\rm m}, \ x_B = 3 \ {\rm m}, \ x_C = 4 \ {\rm m}, \ x_D = 9 \ {\rm m}, \ x_E = 10 \ {\rm m}.
\end{equation}

The object arrives at these points on the following times

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:sfulm-points-ABCED-time}
t_A = 0 \ {\rm s}, \ t_C = 3 \ {\rm s}, \ t_E = 6 \ {\rm s}, \ t_B = 13 \ {\rm s}, \ t_D = 15 \ {\rm s}.
\end{equation}

Notice that sequence of the particle positions is $A \rightarrow C \rightarrow E \rightarrow B \rightarrow D$, according to the order of time.

From the problem information can be extracted and then presented in more compact and visible forms, e.g. table, figure, graph, function, where in a particular case one form is preferable than the others.


## Table
Following tables summerizes the sequence of time and position. The table can be in the form of this

**$t$ (s)** |   0 | 3   |   6 |  13 |  15
**$x$ (m)** |   1 | 4   |  10 |   3 |   9
**Point**   | $A$ | $C$ | $E$ | $B$ | $D$

or this

**$t$ (s)** | **$x$ (m)** | **Point** 
 0 |  1 | $A$
 3 |  4 | $C$
 6 | 10 | $E$ 
13 |  3 | $B$
15 |  9 | $D$

where both tables are identical. You can choose which one suits your style. But one aspect must be the same for both tables, i.e. the time should be in ascending order, from small value to large value as the time evolves.

+ [Article history](https://github.com/butiran/butiran.github.io/commits/master/_posts/phys/2020-09-16-sf-ulm.md)
