---
layout: post
author: viridi
title: tutorial-03 2020-1
mathjax: true
ptext: false
x3dom: false
threejs: false
oo: true
category: physics
tags: ["tutorial"]
date: 2020-10-12 18:20:00 +07
permalink: /physics/tutorial/2020-1-03
---
This entry is related to the questions and problems contained in a problem set using in tutorial activity [[1](#ref1)].


## Questions
1. A force does positive work on a particle that has displacement pointing in the $+x$ direction. This same force does negative work on a particle that has a displacement pointing in the $+y$ direction. In which quadrant of the $x$,$y$ coordinate system does the force lie? (a) First (b) Second (c) Third (d) Fourth.
2. Two iceboats hold a race on a frictionless horizontal lake. The two iceboats have masses $m$ and $2m$. The iceboats have identical sails, so the wind exerts the same constant force, $\vec{F}$ on each iceboat. They start from rest and cross the finish line a distance, $s$ away. Which iceboat crosses the finish line with greater kinetic energy? (a) $m$. (b) $2m$. (c) Both boats have the same kinetic energy. [&#8718;] See [[2](#ref2)] for the image.
3. In which one or more of the following situations is the principle of conservation of mechanical energy obeyed? (a) An object moves uphill with an increasing speed. (b) An object moves uphill with a decreasing speed. (c) An object moves uphill with a constant speed. (d) An object moves downhill with an increasing speed. (e) An object moves downhill with a constant speed.
4. A net external nonconservative force does positive work on a particle. Based solely on this information, you are justified in reaching only one of the following conclusions. Which one is it? (a) The kinetic and potential energies of the particle both decreases. (b) The kinetic and potential energies of the particle both increases. (c) Neither the kinetic nor the potential energy of the particle changes. (d) The total mechanical energy of the particle decreases. (e) The total mechanical energy of the particle increases.
5. Engine A has a greater power rating than engine B. Which one of the following statements correctly describes the abilities of these engines to do work? (a) Engines A and B can do the same amount of work, but engine A can do it more quickly. (b) Engines A and B can do the same amount of work in the same amount of time. (c) In the same amount of time, engine B can do more work than engine A.


## Problems
1. You apply a constant force $\vec{F} = (-68.0 \ {\rm N}) \hat{i} + (36.0 \ {\rm N}) \hat{j}$ to a $380-\rm kg$ car as the car travels $48.0 \ \rm m$ in a direction that is $240.0^\circ$ from the $+x$-axis. How much work does the force you apply do on the car?
2. A $5.00-\rm kg$ package slides $1.50 \ \rm m$ down a long ramp that is inclined at $\alpha$ ($\tan \alpha = 3/4$) below the horizontal. The coefficient of kinetic friction between the package and the ramp is $\mu_k = 0.30$. Calculate (a) the work done on the package by friction; (b) the work done on the package by gravity; (c) the work done on the package by the normal force; (d) the total work done on the package; (e) If the package has a speed of $2.20 \ \rm m/s$ at the top of the ramp, what is its speed after sliding $1.50 \ \rm m$ down the ramp?
3. A force $\vec{F}$ is applied to a $2.0-\rm kg$ radio-controlled model car parallel to the $x$-axis as it moves along a straight track. The $x$-component of the force varies with the $x$-coordinate of the car as shown in figure. Suppose the model car is initially at rest at $x = 0$. Use the work-energy theorem to find the speed of the car at (a) $ x = 3.0 \ \rm m$; (b) $x = 4.0 \ \rm m$; (c) $x = 7.0\ \rm m$. [&#8718;] Graph of $F_x(\rm N)$ againts $x (\rm m)$ with points (0, 0), (2, 2), (3, 2), (3, 0), (4, 0), (6, -1), (6, 0), and (7, 0).
4. The $200-\rm kg$ steel hammerhead of a pile driver is lifted $3.00 \ \rm m$ above the top of a vertical I-beam (point 1) being driven into the ground. The hammerhead is then dropped, driving the I-beam $7.4 \ \rm cm$ deeper into the ground (point 3). The vertical guide rails exert a constant $60-\rm N$ friction force on the hammerhead. Use the work–energy theorem to find (a) the speed of the hammerhead just as it hits the I-beam (point 2) and (b) the average force the hammerhead exerts on the I-beam. Ignore the effects of the air. [&#8718;] See [[3](#ref3)] for illustration.
5. It is $5.0 \ \rm km$ from your home to the physics lab. As part of your physical fitness program, you could run that distance at $10 \ \rm km/h$ (which uses up energy at the rate of $700 \ \rm W$), or you could walk it leisurely at $3.0 \ \rm km/h$ (which uses energy at $290 \ \rm W$). Which choice would burn up more energy, and how much energy (in joules) would it burn?


## Note
The symbol [&#8718;] means that there is a diagram, figure, or graph, which is still illustrated using only text. Or a link to an image.


## References
1. <a name="ref1"></a>Nurhasan, I. Magdalena (eds.), "Topic 3: Work and Energy", Problem Set Elementary Physics 1B (FI-1102), 1st Semester, Academic Year 2020-2021, Physics Study Program, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Indonesia, url <https://fmipa.itb.ac.id/fisika-dasar> [20201012].
2. <a name="ref2"></a>Kevin Beach, "Seminar 9: Linear Impulse and
Momentum", ENPH 131, Faculty of Engineering and Departement of Physics, 24 Mar 2014, no. 1, url <https://sites.ualberta.ca/~kbeach/enph131/docs/Seminar9_Solutions.pdf> [20201012].
3. <a name="ref3"></a> Vitaly Vanchurin, "Chapter 6: Work and Kinetic Energy", Physics 2017 Honors General Physics I, Physics Department, University of Minnesota Duluth, USA, Fall 2017, p. 68, url <https://www.d.umn.edu/~vvanchur/2017PHYS2017/Chapter6.pdf>

+ [Article history](https://github.com/butiran/butiran.github.io/commits/master/_posts/phys/tutorial/2020-10-12-tutorial-03-2020-1.md)
