---
layout: post
author: viridi
title: tutorial-02 2020-1
mathjax: true
ptext: false
x3dom: false
threejs: false
oo: true
category: physics
tags: ["tutorial"]
date: 2020-10-07 04:14:00 +07
permalink: /physics/tutorial/2020-1-02
---
This entry is related to the questions and problems contained in a tutorial module [[1](#ref1)].


## Questions
1. If a car is traveling westward with a constant speed of $20 \ \rm m/s$, what is the resultant force acting on it?
2. A book is given a brief push to make it slide up a rough incline. It comes to a stop and slides back down to the starting point. Does it take the same time to go up as to come down? What if the incline is frictionless?
3. Can an object exert a force on itself? Argue for your answer.
4. A box rests on the floor of an elevator. Because of static friction, a force is required to start the box sliding across the floor when the elevator is a) stationary, b) accelerating upward, and c) accelerating downward. Rank the forces required in these three situations in ascending order that is, smallest first. Explain.
5. An object executes circular motion with constant speed whenever a net force of constant magnitude acts perpendicular to the velocity. What happens to the speed if the force is not perpendicular to the velocity?


## Problems
1. A $3.00-\rm kg$ object is moving in a plane, with its $x$ and $y$ coordinates given by $x = 5t^2 - 1$ and $y = 3t^2 + 2$, where $x$ and $y$ are in meters and $t$ is in seconds. Find the magnitude of the net force acting on this object at $t = 2.00 \ \rm s$.
2. A $25.0-\rm kg$ block is initially at rest on a horizontal surface. A horizontal force of $75.0 \ \rm N$ is required to set the block in motion. After it is in motion, a horizontal force of $60.0 \rm N$ is required to keep the block moving with constant speed. Find the coefficients of static and kinetic friction from this information.
3. A $1.00-\rm kg$ object is observed to have an acceleration of $10.0 \ \rm m/s^2$ in a direction $30.0^\circ$ north of east. The force $\vec{F}_2$ acting on the object has a magnitude of $5.00 \ \rm N$ and is directed north. Determine the magnitude and direction of the force $\vec{F}_1$ acting on the object. [&#8718;] A block with gray color has information of $1.00 \ \rm kg$. Vector $\vec{F}_2$ is from the block to the top (north) and vector $\vec{F}_1$ is from the block to the right (east). Acceleration vector $\vec{a} = 10.0 \ \rm m/s^2$ is directed from the block to a direction between east ($\vec{F}_1$) and north ($\vec{F}_2$) with an arch from $\vec{F}_1$ to $\vec{a}$ with number $30.0^\circ$.
4. Three objects are connected on the table as shown in figure. The table is rough and has a coefficient of kinetic friction of $0.350$. The objects have masses of $4.00 \ \rm kg$, $1.00 \ \rm kg$ and $2.00 \ \rm kg$, as shown, and the pulleys are frictionless. a. Determine the acceleration of each object and their directions. b. Determine the tensions in the two cords. [&#8718;] There are three blocks and two pulleys in the figure, where all are connected through a wire. From the left end to the right end there are $4.00 \ \rm kg$ block, left massless pulley, $1.00 \ \rm kg$ block, right massless pulley, and $2.00 \ \rm kg$ block. The first and the last blocks are hanging in the air suspended by the wire, while the second is on the level table. There is friction between the second block and surface of the table.
5. Two blocks of mass 3.50 kg and 8.00 kg are connected by a massless string that passes over a frictionless pulley. The inclines are frictionless.
a. Find the magnitude of the acceleration of each block
b. Find the tension in the string. [&#8718;]
6. A 4.00-kg object is att ached to a vertical rod by two strings, as in figure. The object rotates in a horizontal circle at constant speed 6.00 m/s. Find the tension of each string. [&#8718;]
7. A block of mass 3.00 kg is pushed up against a wall by a force 𝑃⃗⃗ that makes a 50.0° angle with the horizontal as shown in figure. The coefficient of static friction between the block and the wall is 0.250. Determine the possible values for the magnitude of 𝑃⃗⃗ that allow the block to remain stationary. [&#8718;]
8. A 0.400-kg object is swung in a vertical circular path on a string 0.500 m long. If its speed is 4.00 m/s at the top of the circle, what is the tension in the string there?
9. A penny of mass 3.10 g rests on a small 20.0-g block supported by a spinning disk as shown in figure. The coefficients of friction between block and disk are 0.750 (static) and 0.640 (kinetic) while those for the penny and block are 0.520 (static) and 0.450 (kinetic). What is the maximum rate of rotation in revolutions per minute that the disk can have, without the block or penny sliding on the disk? [&#8718;]
10. In a home laundry dryer, a cylindrical tub containing wet clothes is rotated steadily about a horizontal axis, as shown in figure. So that the clothes will dry uniformly, they are made to tumble. The rate of rotation of the smooth-walled tub is chosen so that a small piece of cloth will lose contact with the tub when the cloth is at an angle of 68.0°above the horizontal. If the radius of the tub is 0.330 m,
what rate of revolution is needed? [&#8718;]


## Note
The symbol [&#8718;] means that there is a diagram, figure, or graph, which is still illustrated using only text.


## References
1. <a name="ref1"></a>Nurhasan, I. Magdalena (eds.), "Module 2: Dynamics", Tutorial of FI1102 Elementary Physics IB, Semester 1, Academic Year 2020-2021, Program Studi Fisika, Fakultas Matematika dan Ilmu Pengetahuan Alam, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Indonesia, url <https://fmipa.itb.ac.id/fisika-dasar> [20201007].

+ [Article history](https://github.com/butiran/butiran.github.io/commits/master/_posts/phys/tutorial/2020-10-07-tutorial-02-2020-1.md)
